.. module:: pfio.v2

V2 API
======

.. note:: this is still in exprerimental phase.


PFIO v2 API tries to solve the impedance mismatch between different
local filesystem, NFS, and other object storage systems, with a lot
simpler and cleaner code.

It has removed several toplevel functions that seem to be less
important. It turned out that they introduced more complexity than
originally intended, due to the need of the global context. Thus,
functions that depends on the global context such as ``open()``,
``set_root()`` and etc. have been removed in v2 API.

Instead, v2 API provides only two toplevel functions that enable
direct resource access with full URL: ``open_url()`` and
``fs.from_url()``. The former opens a file and returns FileObject. The
latter, creates a ``fs.FS`` object that enable resource access under
the URL. The new class ``fs.FS``, is something close to handler object
in version 1 API. ``fs.FS`` is intended to be as much compatible as
possible, however, it has several differences.

One notable difference is that it has the virtual concept of current
working directory, and thus provides ``subfs()`` method. ``subfs()``
method behaves like ``os.chdir()`` without actually changing current
working directory of the process, but actually returns a *new*
``fs.FS`` object that has different working directory. All resouce
access through the object automatically prepends the working
directory.

V2 API does not provide lazy resouce initialization any more. Instead,
it provides simple wrapper ``recreate_on_fork``, which recreates the
``fs.FS`` object every time the object experiences ``fork(2)``. ``Hdfs``
and ``Zip`` can be wrapped with it, and will be fork-tolerant object.



Reference
---------

.. autofunction:: open_url
.. autofunction:: pfio.v2.fs.from_url
.. autofunction:: pfio.v2.fs.recreate_on_fork

.. autoclass:: pfio.v2.fs.FS
   :members:
.. autoclass:: Local
   :members:
.. autoclass:: Hdfs
   :members:
.. autoclass:: S3
   :members:
.. autoclass:: Zip
   :members:

.. note::
          Only the username in the first entry in The
          keytab will be used to update the Kerberos ticket.
